joining us live from occupied East
Jerusalem Let's cross now to nther
Ibrahim she's at the kalandia checkpoint
in occupied West Bank where people are
trying to cross from the occupied West
Bank to get to where villain was outside
the al- AXA Moss compound and neither it
is the first Ramadan since the war on
Gaza began people hoping to get to alaxa
are facing even more
restrictions yes they are and we are
closer now to prayer time we're talking
about 45 minutes before the prayers
start but people here are still hoping
that they will get a chance to enter
through ala MOS compound from one of
those Gates this is a different gate
than the one we were at uh this morning
but still we are at the kalandia
checkpoint where Palestinians who are
above 55 for men and above 50 for women
can enter but only if they have a valid
entry permit this is basically a new new
uh uh restriction that has been imposed
by the Israeli forces that hasn't been
imposed earlier and Palestinians were
saying that some of them they didn't
even know that they needed that valid
permit so they're trying other people
are just trying their luck saying maybe
maybe the soldier will let them in but
indeed we've seen people being turned
away and we're seeing also Israeli
soldiers surrounding the area here so it
remains a tense situation for the
Palestinians who are waiting to see if
if they can get inside again when it
comes to women in previous years they
did not have age restriction when it
comes to praying at Alamos compound now
they do and they have to be above 50 but
men used to be uh needed to be older
than 40 or 45 to be allowed in now they
have to be above 55 so this just tells
you about the situation here about
people who are hoping and dreaming to go
and pray in Al loas compound
specifically at the first Friday of
Ramadan yes is of course so important to
people there isn't it NE just how
worried are people there about a further
escalation of tensions with all of these
new restrictions that they're trying to
navigate yes they are trying to navigate
these new restrictions that also include
that Palestinians when they leave they
either have to submit their papers at
the checkpoint or even take a selfie
through one of the applications that
belong to the government to the
basically the
Israeli activity the the Israeli entity
that deals with Palestinians in the
occupied West Bank imagine like taking a
selfie to be able to prove that you
exited uh Jerusalem but also we're
talking about Palestinians you know the
numbers if compared to previous years
they're a trickle of what we used to see
when Palestinians would gather here by
the thousands in these areas trying to
get in but some of them we're telling us
that it's hard to make the move from
different cities from the occupied West
Bank and make it here because of the
Israeli military checkpoints because of
the situation of settler attacks against
them so we're talking about a very tense
situation people are also scared that
the situation inside Alamos compound
might be tense with Israeli restrictions
with the tense situation that has been
unfolding there nther thank you so much
for your reporting nether Ibrahim live
at the Candia checkpoint